Added initial criteria (Level 2 and 3 are known incomplete) (#24)
ossf/security-baseline: criteria.md

| Category | Criteria Statement | Maturity Level |
|---|---|---|

> | Access Control  | The project's version control system MUST require multi-factor authentication (MFA) for users when modifying the project repositories or accessing sensitive data. | 1 (sandbox)    |

Author: ```suggestion
| Access Control  | The project's version control system MUST require multi-factor authentication (MFA) for users when modifying the project repository settings or accessing sensitive data. | 1 (sandbox)    |
```

> | Access Control  | The project's version control system MUST require multi-factor authentication (MFA) for users when modifying the project repositories or accessing sensitive data. | 1 (sandbox)    |

Reviewer: That was my interpretation as well. Ship it.

> | Access Control  | The project's version control system MUST require multi-factor authentication (MFA) that does not include SMS for users when modifying the project repositories or accessing sensitive data. | 3 (graduated)  |

Author: ```suggestion
| Access Control  | The project's version control system MUST require multi-factor authentication (MFA) that does not include SMS for users when modifying the project repository settings or accessing sensitive data. | 3 (graduated)  |
```

> | Access Control  | The project's version control system MUST require multi-factor authentication (MFA) that does not include SMS for users when modifying the project repositories or accessing sensitive data. | 3 (graduated)  |

Reviewer: Ship it.

| Documentation   | The project MUST have one or more mechanisms for public discussions about proposed changes and usage obstacles. | 1 (sandbox)    |
| Documentation   | The project documentation MUST include a guide for contributors and approvers that includes the requirements for acceptable contributions. | 2 (incubating) |
| Documentation   | The project documentation MUST define a cadence in which known vulnerabilities are evaluated, and exploitable vulnerabilities are either fixed or verified as unexploitable. | 3 (graduated)  |
| Documentation   | The project documentation MUST provide user guides for all basic functionality. | 1 (sandbox)    |
| Documentation   | The project documentation MUST provide design documentation demonstrating all actions and actors within the system. | 2 (incubating) |
| Documentation   | The project documentation MUST provide reference documentation that describes the external application programmer and human interface (both input and output) of the software                | 3 (graduated)  |
| Documentation   | The project documentation MUST include an explanation of the contribution process. | 1 (sandbox)    |

> | Quality         | A version control system MUST be publicly readable and has a static URL. | 1 (sandbox)    |

Author: ```suggestion
| Quality         | The version control system MUST be publicly readable and have a static URL. | 1 (sandbox)    |
```

> | Quality         | A version control system MUST be publicly readable and has a static URL. | 1 (sandbox)    |

Reviewer: Ship it!

| Quality         | The version control system MUST contain a publicly readable record of all changes made, who made the changes, and when the changes were made. | 1 (sandbox)    |
| Quality         | All released software assets MUST be associated with a machine-readable list of all direct and transitive dependencies with their associated version identifier. | 2 (incubating) |
| Quality         | Any automated commit status checks MUST pass or require manual intervention prior to merge. | 2 (incubating) |

> | Quality         | All subprojects MUST enforce security requirements as applicable to the status and intent of the subproject. | 2 (incubating) |

Reviewer: I'm having trouble parsing this. Is there another way to say it?

Author: ```suggestion
| Quality         | All codebases within the project MUST enforce security requirements as applicable to the status and intent of the codebase. | 2 (incubating) |
```

How's this?

cc @david-a-wheeler @SecurityCRob

Author: The idea behind the term "subproject" here is that a project may contain multiple codebases, which would be covered by all the other criteria... but we should address the fact that subordinate elements themselves function as independent projects with delineated leadership and processes— in those cases, the subprojects themselves will need to meet all of the criteria on their own.

This isn't an essential criteria— we can remove it if it's too difficult to hammer out.

### Maturity Level 1 (Sandbox)
 
| Category | Criteria Statement |
|---|---|
| Access Control | The project's version control system MUST require multi-factor authentication (MFA) for users when modifying the project repository settings or accessing sensitive data. |

> | Access Control | The project's version control system MUST restrict collaborator permissions to the lowest available privileges by default. |

Reviewer: Maybe "necessary" instead?

> | Access Control | The project's version control system MUST restrict collaborator permissions to the lowest available privileges by default. |

Author: Just chatted about this with Justin and the CNCF baseline WG— the solution to this will be to add a glossary/lexicon that defines our terms. When we create that document, we can also come back through to make sure it has successfully clarified lines like this.

| Access Control | The project's version control system MUST prevent accidental direct commits against the primary branch. |

> | Access Control | The project's version control system MUST prevent accidental deletion of the default branch. |

Reviewer 2: Are default and primary meant to be different here?

Author: unintentional, thanks for catching.

```suggestion
| Access Control | The project's version control system MUST prevent accidental direct commits against the primary branch. |
| Access Control | The project's version control system MUST prevent accidental deletion of the primary branch. |
```

> | Build & Release | The project's build and release pipelines MUST NOT execute arbitrary code that is input from outside of the build script. |

Reviewer 3: | Build & Release | Project leads set schedule for document and whitepaper peer reviews. All documents and white papers MUST be published for pre-read and undergo peer review. after passing peer review, documents and whitepapers are published as final and versioned.
| Build & Release | Project leads set schedule for software peer reviews. All software releases MUST be published for pre-read and undergo peer review. after passing peer review, software is published as final and versioned.

Author: I like where you're going with this. Let's propose additions in a follow-up PR.

> | Build & Release | The project's build and release pipelines MUST NOT execute arbitrary code that is input from outside of the build script. |

Author: We have this flagged for additional details because it's a valid recurring question. This would not ban semantic executables like ecosystem installers or eval.

> | Build & Release | All software releases MUST be assigned a standardized unique version identifier. |

Reviewer 2: Do we want to recommend semver?

Reviewer: I'd be okay with that, although we probably wouldn't want to put that in the main table.

> | Build & Release | Any websites related to the project development and release MUST be delivered using SSH or HTTPS and TLS. |

Reviewer 2: HTTPS implies TLS (I think always, but at least does in practice), so I don't think there is a reason to write it this way.
```suggestion
| Build & Release | Any websites related to the project development and release MUST be delivered using SSH or HTTPS. |
```

| Documentation | The project MUST have one or more mechanisms for public discussions about proposed changes and usage obstacles. |

> | Documentation | The project documentation MUST provide user guides for all basic functionality. |

Reviewer 2: What is basic functionality?  What is a user guide?

Reviewer: Good questions to answer in a broader explanatory doc, along the lines of what [David Wheeler suggested](https://github.com/ossf/security-baseline/pull/24#issuecomment-2399993053), but not in the main table for readability.

| Documentation | The project documentation MUST include an explanation of the contribution process. |

> | Quality | The version control system MUST be publicly readable and have a static URL. |

Reviewer 2: What do you mean by static URL?   What is a common counterexample?

Author: We'll need to elaborate in the justification/details content— but the idea presented here is to ensure that the project is using standard reasonable mechanisms for the VCS.

Counter example would be a project changing it's URL— it happens, but it should raise a flag and definitely shouldn't be routine. Or if a project mirrors between two locations and doesn't have a consistent stable location where development is happening.

(TBH I have no attachment to "static," and I don't recall where that suggestion originally came from)

| Quality | The version control system MUST contain a publicly readable record of all changes made, who made the changes, and when the changes were made. |

> | Legal | The version control system MUST require all committers to assert that they are legally authorized to commit the associated contributions on every commit. |

Reviewer 2: How does this work in practice?   How would this happen with PRs from outside sources?

Reviewer: My read of this is that it requires DCO (or a CLA, etc).

| Legal | The license for the source code MUST be written in a standardized format approved by the OSI or FSF. |
| Legal | The license for the source code MUST be maintained in a standard location within the version control system repository. |

> | Legal | The license for the released assets MUST be written in a standardized format approved by the OSI or FSF, if different from the source code license. |

Reviewer 2: Can we link to URLs / guidance here?

Reviewer: +1 to linking to lists here, even if we have a broader explanation doc for these entries.

Author: I'll add this to the list of formatting changes in the follow-up PR!

| Build & Release | All released software assets MUST be created with consistent, automated build and release processes. |
| Build & Release | All build and release pipelines MUST use standardized tooling to ingest dependencies at build time. |
| Build & Release | All software releases MUST include a descriptive log of functional and security modifications. |
| Documentation | The project documentation MUST include a policy for coordinated vulnerability reporting, with a clear timeframe for response. |
| Documentation | The project documentation MUST include a mechanism for reporting defects. |
| Documentation | The project documentation MUST include a guide for contributors and approvers that includes the requirements for acceptable contributions.|
| Documentation | The project documentation MUST provide design documentation demonstrating all actions and actors within the system. |
| Quality | All released software assets MUST be associated with a machine-readable list of all direct and transitive dependencies with their associated version identifier. |
| Quality | Any automated commit status checks MUST pass or require manual intervention prior to merge. |

> | Quality | All subprojects MUST enforce security requirements as applicable to the status and intent of the subproject. |

Reviewer: From [a discussion on a previous version](https://github.com/ossf/security-baseline/pull/24#discussion_r1792074824), this should be:

> All codebases within the project MUST enforce security requirements as applicable to the status and intent of the codebase.

Author: Thanks for catching that! Lost a few changes in a local conflict.

```suggestion
| Quality | All codebases within the project MUST enforce security requirements as applicable to the status and intent of the codebase. |
```
